IN THE BEGINNING: the story of our dimension and the gods that shape it
Written in the year 4108 by Eldwara Droiph, human Scholar of History and Religion.

FOREWORD

Here I strive to put down in writing the most simple and accurate account of the creation of our universe. This modern version of the story is accepted by the majority of all bipeds today.

But first, a few notes on pronouns.

Over the years, the bipeds have developed personified images of the gods (Aule as male dwarf, Caila as female human, etc.). While these personifications are still quite popular today, modern philosophers are eager to emphasize that the gods are highly abstract entities to which classifications of race and gender do not/should not apply. (In my own writings I've famously argued the position that the gods are so spiritually advanced, their true nature cannot possibly be discerned by the comparatively limited bipedal mind.) In this text, however, I've decided to keep with the norm of using familiar pronouns that reflect the gender of each god's manufactured personification. I take this liberty strictly as a matter of convenience.

Historically the bipeds have never agreed upon personifications of Itulvatar and Murgorhd*. Perhaps this isn't terribly surprising, as we bipeds often find these gods to be the most nebulous, and Murgorhd is undeniably a great source of contention. In this text I refer to Itulvatar and Murgorhd using male pronouns, as is the common practice.

* Notably, some races have time and time again expressed their dismay over their association with certain gods, primarily the felinoids (Dellio) and vulpenoids (Rhayk). The personifications have stuck, however, and are unlikely to change anytime soon.

-

  In the beginning, the dimension in which we exist today was utterly empty. Unoccupied space stretched out in all directions, for distances unfathomable. There was no matter, energy, light, or darkness. For eons such was our dimension: lonely and barren.

  Searching for ways to expand his influence, Murgorhd, god of darkness, arrived at last. Pleased with finding an untouched dimension, he was quick to bathe the entire expanse in cold, unforgiving darkness.

  Itulvatar, god of light, was well aware of Murgorhd's efforts to further the reaches of darkness. Arriving shortly after Murgorhd, Itulvatar was at first dispirited to find an entire dimension engulfed in gloom. Although he could not completely undo Murgorhd's work, he could counteract it with some efforts of his own. Itulvatar created countless stars - massive beacons of light and warmth - and dispersed them all across our dimension. The countless stars broke through the pervasive darkness, providing illumination where they could.

  Itulvatar was pleased with his work, but not entirely satisfied with the end result. He felt our dimension needed something more to make it truly special. He called upon Rumialys, god of nature, and proposed that he undertake the task of populating our dimension with life. Rumialys eagerly accepted.

  He chose our sun, one of Itulvatar's stars, as the setting for his work. He created the planet Rumia and set it in orbit about the sun. In a stroke of genius, he spun Rumia on its axis so that Rumia's inhabitants would experience both light (day) and darkness (night). Such began year 0 as measured by the calendar we have today.

  Feeling inspired, Rumialys spent the next 100 years populating Rumia with life and spirit. First he created the bipeds, blessing them with a relatively high degree of intelligence. He then spawned a great variety of plants and animals, beginning with cats, rabbits, and foxes (four-legged creatures conceived in the images of felinoids, lagomorphs, and vulpenoids, respectively).

  Drogo was watching close by. Not long after Rumialys began creating life as we know it, Drogo keenly observed that our dimension was quickly developing into something novel and exciting. Wanting to leave his own mark, he created the moon, setting it in orbit about Rumia. Drogo spent the next 100 years instilling in the moon a great interlacing of magical forces. The bipeds, blessed with sufficient faculties and talent, could harness the magic radiated by the moon. And so Drogo became known to us as god of the moon and magic.

  Celoriel, Drogo's wife, was jealous of all the time he was spending away from her, engrossed in the invention of magical forces. She was, however, secretly impressed with his work. Hoping to one-up him by doing even better, Celoriel pondered if life on Rumia could be further enhanced by a system of forces inspired by, but distinctly separate from, Drogo's magic.

  Instead of creating an external source of power as Drogo did with the moon, Celoriel focused on the minds and spirits of Rumia's more advanced lifeforms. She spent the next 100 years creating complex, intangible forces flowing through all life on Rumia, forces that could be manipulated by a trained mind and a disciplined spirit. To all bipeds she gave the natural ability to link minds and communicate telepathically. And so Celoriel became known to us as the god of psionics.

  Having worked so hard for so long, Drogo and Celoriel rested for 50 years while passively observing the unfolding influence of magic and psionics. During this time they mated frequently, and Celoriel gave birth to three more gods: Aule, Caila, and Iminye. To each of their offspring Drogo and Celoriel assigned the task of regulating and embellishing a particular aspect of bipedal life and culture. Aule became the god of wealth, Caila the god of harvest, and Iminye the god of art and engineering.

  The birth of three new gods was not overlooked by Murgorhd, who was especially smitten by Iminye. Boasting of extraordinary power and promising to teach her how to wield it for herself, he charmed Iminye, luring her far away from her parents. Twice he violated her ruthlessly, only to leave her alone in his cruel darkness.

  Devastated, a pregnant Iminye returned to the protection of her parents. She went on to give birth to two more gods: Dellio and Rhayk. Although it was her intention to raise and nurture them by herself, after a few short years they callously abandoned her, preferring to live under the dark shadow of their father. Murgorhd took them under his wing, ultimately designating Dellio the god of debauchery, and Rhayk the god of war.

  By this time Itulvatar had become engaged in overseeing the goings-on of other dimensions. Murgorhd once again busied himself by searching for other zones in which to disseminate his darkness. Neither has entirely forsaken our dimension, however; each still takes time to cast a watchful eye over life on Rumia, as do Celoriel, Drogo, and Rumialys. The remaining gods (Aule, Caila, Dellio, Iminye, and Rhayk) have stayed in close proximity and continue to focus their energies on primarily on Rumia.

-

AFTERWORD

And so things have continued to the present day. Although the gods have not revealed themselves to us in any physical manifestation (likely, they have none which is perceivable by the lifeforms of Rumia), their enduring influence is undeniable. As far back as written record indicates, bipedal devotees have formally organized themselves. Each god has its own established church, of which the Church of Itulvatar has long been the most popular, and that of Murgorhd, the least (in no small part due to the fact that it has for thousands of years been deemed an illicit organization throughout all of Rumia). Most bipeds feel a personal affinity with a number of gods, whose churches they frequent for formal worship. Some churches have long held events and functions that are widely attended, chiefly the Church of Caila's Maturi festival and the Church of Dellio's Carnival of Merrymaking.

When pondering the influence of the gods on our daily lives, the curious topic of holy symbols is one that immediately comes to mind. I would encourage the keen reader to seek out my first book, "UNDERSTANDING HOLY SYMBOLS: The Illustrated Guide," in which I formally examine subject.
