UNDERSTANDING HOLY SYMBOLS: The Illustrated Guide
Written in the year 4099 by Eldwara Droiph, human Scholar of History and Religion.

PART 1: On the Topic of Holy Symbols

A holy symbol is a divine object principally used in the ceremonial sacrifice of a corpse. The curious nature of holy symbols is this: when one is applied in a \uproper\n sacrifice, the corpse is sure to vanish. Only when a holy symbol is used will the corpse vanish; any sacrifice attempted without a holy symbol is doomed to fail as an \uimproper\n sacrifice.

In addition to the presence of a holy symbol, the remaining ingredients of a proper sacrifice are 1) the application of the holy symbol, and 2) a prayer. One must \uapply\n the holy symbol: lay the divine object upon the corpse, and say a \uprayer\n for the soul of the deceased. A humble and sincere prayer is most ideal.
Above all, carry out the sacrifice respectfully, acknowledging that the act is a ritual; it is a ceremony (however big or small). Do these things and your sacrifice will succeed.

An immensely intriguing question is that of the fate of the soul. The churches of the world have proposed their own varied answers. Notably, most bipeds seem to believe that the choice of holy symbol does not hold any significant sway over what occurs in the afterlife. When a particular god's holy symbol is applied, it may grant said god a small measure of power. This is pure speculation, of course.

The astute reader is at this point surely wondering about the corpse. It vanishes, yes; but does it cease to exist entirely? Is it transported to another dimension? Alas, there are no clear answers to these questions, either. I defer again to the churches, who offer their own explanations (most of them disappointingly nebulous).

The creation of holy symbols is another topic of great interest. What makes a holy symbol a holy symbol? As a simple matter of fact, an object becomes a holy symbol when it is formally blessed by a cleric of a church. The precise prayers uttered when designating a holy symbol is secret knowledge, passed down throughout the ages and generally well-guarded by the churches.

The actual object that constitutes a holy symbol varies by church: investigating the intrinsic meaning of these objects is the primary purpose of this document. Holy symbols have evolved over history, in the sense that the churches have officially produced holy symbols of a variety of description, never settling on any one specification for more than a few hundred years. Until recently, that is, as no church has imposed a formal change upon its holy symbol for at least the last 850 years.

Part 2 of this document is concerned with modern holy symbol design. Every holy symbol is at once both a practical object and one of great symbolism. Understanding the symbolism is a worthy goal of both believers and scholars alike.

-

PART 2: The Illustrated Guide

AULE: god of wealth

[There is an illustration of ...]

-

CAILA: god of the harvest

[There is an illustration of a small, white, rectangular cloth bag. The bag is sewn shut, and a vertical series of four runes is embroidered upon its cloth surface.]

The holy symbol of Caila is a rectangular cloth bag containing "ine," or purified rice; that is, rice blessed by a cleric of Caila during "Maturi." Maturi is a harvest festival officially held by the Church of Caila in the month of Lush Lun. During the festival, rice gifted by farmers is blessed in a lively ceremony that includes music and dancing. This ine - purified rice - is kept on hand, to become the contents of the holy symbols produced by the church for the following 8 months. Ine is considered to be a kind of good luck charm, emblematic of an abundant harvest.

The runes embroidered on the surface of the holy symbol are from "shigo," a script used by ancient humans before the adoption of the modern hominal alphabet. Translated to common, the runes read, "blessed harvest sacred life." The runes are always carefully embroidered in vermilion thread, vermilion being a color commonly found in church architecture (in addition, clerics of Caila don stark white robes with vermilion trimming - it's quite striking).

(It should be noted that "ine," "Maturi," and "shigo" are hominal words.)

-

CELORIEL: god of psionics

[There is an illustration of ...]

-

DELLIO: god of debauchery

[There is an illustration of a short, thin bone, somewhat curved at one end.]

The holy symbol of Dellio is a baculum; that is, a penis bone (most often that of a cat, dog, raccoon, or bear).

Naturally, a baculum becomes a holy symbol of Dellio only when it is formally blessed by a cleric. The ceremonial blessing, which always takes place inside a church and may only be attended by clerics, has long been shrouded in mystery. Each holy symbol demands its own ceremony, and ceremonies have been known to last anywhere from five minutes to over an hour (often with only one cleric present, occasionally with more).

Believers have attributed a great variety of powers to the holy symbol of Dellio. A popular belief states that merely having the divine object on one's person grants one the ability to imbibe copious amounts of wine without falling down. There are many other such beliefs, but their accuracy is hard to prove.

Depending on where one is situated, true clerics of Dellio can be hard to come by. Impostors selling bogus holy symbols at high prices have long been an issue for the church. Your best bet is to get a holy symbol directly from a church, in person (if you are so able).

-

DROGO: god of the moon and magic

[There is an illustration of ...]

-

IMINYE: god of art and engineering

[There is an illustration of ...]

-

ITULVATAR: god of light

[There is an illustration of a large coin with a picture embossed upon it.]

The holy symbol of Itulvatar is easily the most popular holy symbol; the vast majority of bipeds will recognize it as a commonplace object. It is a thick steel disc, four inches in diameter. On the front is an illustration of a large torch burning fiercely, set upon a backdrop of rays of sunlight spreading high above the horizon. The torch fire represents the precious, primal energy of light and warmth, while the rays are meant to be that of our own sun.

On the back of the disc, the following prayer is engraved in common:
Beloved Itulvatar,
Architect of Stars,
(may your Light bathe all existence):
I humbly offer myself to You,
that your Light may guide me
through all darkness and calamity.

-

MURGORHD: god of darkness

[There is an illustration of a block of wood. Cleanly carved into the wood's surface is an equilateral triangle inside a circle, such that each vertex connects with the circle.]

(At the time of this writing the Church of Murgorhd remains - as always - illegal, underground, and highly unpopular. Here I document the design of the holy symbol purely out of academic interest.)

No holy symbol has changed throughout history as much as that of Murgorhd. Historical records suggest that for thousands of years the church was too disorganized to settle on any single standard for very long. Attempts at clandestine holy symbols were once not uncommon. But these days are long gone: the fact that the design has remained stable for the last 850 years now speaks, most unfortunately, to the stability of the modern church itself.

The holy symbol of Murgorhd is a block of wood (usually oak), 3 1/2 x 1/2 x 7 inches. The wood is stained a rich tone of black. Carved into the surface is a triangle inside a circle, the circle being about 2 inches in diameter. Next to each vertex of the triangle a capital letter of the common alphabet is inset, one for each of the church's tenets: S at the apex (for Self), F at the bottom left (for Freedom), and J at the bottom right (for Justice).

The prescribed way to sacrifice a corpse using a holy symbol of Murgorhd is to point the apex of the triangle westward when one lays the divine object upon the corpse. To believers, west is a direction of special meaning, for only when the sun sets in the west does darkness befall us.

-

RHAYK: god of war

[There is an illustration of a short mace with a wooden handle.]

The holy symbol of Rhayk is a lightweight, ceremonial mace, about one foot long. To be exact, it is a smooth-headed round mace, with decorative, curved grooves set into the head. Simple but elegant.

Carved into the polished wooden handle is the mark of Rhayk, a bold, highly-stylized capital letter R (from the common alphabet) inside a solid, rectangular border.

Warriors and soldiers have long been known to carry the holy symbol into battle. It is not a weapon, however. Out of due reverence to Rhayk, the holy symbol should never be used in an attack. Still, it is a practical tool upon the field of battle when used for its intended purpose.

The availability of holy symbols produced to the church's official specifications can vary widely. The supply depends on the demand, and demand is only ever truly high during wartime. For those aiming to posses their own holy symbol for personal use, the church has been known to bless a suitable mace or cudgel provided by the believer (preferably one with the mark of Rhayk on the handle).

-

RUMIALYS: god of nature

[There is an illustration of a metal ring. Words are etched upon its outer surface. A single thin, straight bar runs through the center and connects two opposites edges of the ring.]

The holy symbol of Rumialys is a plain object of deep symbolism: a steel ring with a bar running the length of its four-inch diameter. The ring - a perfect circle - symbolizes both our planet Rumia, as well as the many cyclic patterns that may be observed in both nature and life itself. The bar through the ring's center represents the divine energy of Rumialys and how its presence may be observed across all existence. "Mother of Life, Architect of All" is etched in naelyni along the outside of the ring (it is with these six words that formal prayers to Rumialys most often end).
