\h LOPO LWAN-MI \d
from The Cyclopedia Rumia
by Lalia Bolger, a hobbit professor of history at the University of Kilagore
written in the year 4168

\uLocation\n
@l@lLopo Lwan-mi is an island in the Shunfalip-mi archipelago, located north of Shonlip-mi and south of Zunbun-mi. It is the second of the five islands in the chain when viewed from south to north.

\uHistory\n
@l@lFrom antiquity, Lopo Lwan-mi has been home to four autonomous nymphian tribes: the Ashop'ko-zu, Fijalwo-zu, Lwaenmi-zu, and Nmily-zu. For thousands of years the tribes were able to coexist on what were, for the most part, friendly and cooperative terms (the same cannot always be said of the nymphs indigenous to the other islands of Shunfalip-mi).
@l@lThe nymphs were traditionally a society of hunter-gatherers. Devout worshipers of Rumialys, they were adept at living off the land.

"Lopo Lwan-mi" means "Big Gorhna Island" in naelyni. The nymphs gave this name to the island for the shape of its coast, which roughly resembles that of the soft gorhna nut.

\uGeogrpahy\n
TODO: Names for geographic features need to be added to the map: Onkunmu Lym, Ship'kalwa-ji, Iali-to, Anlybe-no.
@l@lLopo Lwan-mi can be roughly divided into three geographic zones. The southern zone is lush, with three major forests and two rugged, hilly regions. The central zone is a tropical savanna featuring great expanses of grassland. The northern zone is a rocky desert.
@l@lLopo Lwan-mi is home to two great mountain ranges. The Kap'kozun-bi is found in the southern zone, while the Onjo-bi extends throughout both the central and northern zones. Notably, there does exist a pass between the two mountain ranges wide enough for a caravan to traverse with ease; this pass, know as Onkunmu Lym in naelyni ("Onkunmu Pass"), is effectively a bridge connecting the western and eastern halves of the island.
@l@lThe Sofun Kanki ("Uninhabited Zone") is a wide stretch of land encompassing the entire northeastern side of the island, from the desert east of the Onjo-bi mountains to the Ship'kalwa-ji river. As the name suggests, this area remains entirely unsettled by bipeds. It is, however, widely known for its great variety of wildlife, not the least of which is the giant honey badger. The grave danger posed by this vicious beast is the primary reason that the Sofun Kanki remains uninhabited to this day.
@l@lLopo Lwan-mi has just two freshwater lakes of significant size: Bunlwen-to in the southern zone, and Iali-to ("Untouched Lake") in the central zone, near the desert to the north and in the heart of the Sofun Kanki.

rivers
forests

\uClimate\n
@l@l

\uFauna and flora\n
@l@l
It's common to find gorhna nut trees in the forests of Lopo Lwan-mi. The fruit of the gorhna nut tree is a large, oft misshapen capsule with a hard, woody shell. It is this fruit that contains the well-known gorhna nuts. The nuts are distinguished not for their taste (which isn't particularly pleasant), but their nutritional value. Soldiers commonly carry them onto the battlefield, and doctors occasionally dispense them to patients.

\uEconomy\n
@l@l
Gorhna nuts are the chief export of Lopo Lwan-mi. Throughout the third millennium, the nymphs traded them directly with all the kingdoms surrounding Shunfalip-mi.

\uSettlements\n
@l@l

The Onkunmu Lym ("Onkunmu Pass") is of vital importance to the people of Ashonbo-ko, as it provides a means of direct trade with Mibi-ko for essential goods.

Roughly seventy years ago now, elven refugees of the Crimson War first settled in the Anlybe-no forest located north of Lop'len-ko and west of the Unkap-ji river. With the help of the lagomorphs, the elves built their residences in the traditional manner: up in the trees, a network of bridges and walkways connecting the homes.

roads
which races have settled where?
