\hSHUNFALIP-MI\d
from The Cyclopedia Rumia
by Lalia Bolger, a hobbit professor of history at the University of Kilagore
written in the year 4167

\uGeography\n
@l@lShunfalip-mi is an archipelago between Falyncentie to the north and Dolgu to the south. It marks the divide between the Dopgol Ocean to the west and the Orthen Ocean to the east. Its five islands, from southernmost to northernmost, are: Shonlip-mi, Lopo Lwan-mi, Zunbun-mi, Kap'lwen-mi, and Unlenbi-mi. Zunbun-mi is the largest island, while Unlenbi-mi is the smallest.

\uHistory\n
@l@lShunfalip-mi is the indigenous home of the nymphs. With little interference from the outside world, the nymphs maintained their hunter-gatherer culture for nearly 4,000 years in relative peace. Nymphian society organized into at least a dozen autonomous tribes, and a single, central government was never established on the archipelago.
@l@lDuring the third millennium, an increase in trade between the kingdoms to the north and south lead to the creation of a formal trade route along the island chain. Interest in the agricultural products of Shunfalip-mi increased, and many nymphian tribes experienced greater prosperity as a result of engaging in international trade.
@l@lThe Lago-Nymphian war broke out in 4008. Desiring to exercise greater control over the trade route and to absorb/monopolize the market for goods from Shunfalip-mi, the lagomorphean army launched an invasion from Falyncentie with the goal of annexing the archipelago. The nymphs were highly hindered by a lack of inter-tribal organization, and the lagomorphs were victorious in a matter of months. There were relatively few casualties on either side. Shunfalip-mi officially became part of Falyncentie, and the nymphs likewise became citizens of the lagomorphean kingdom; tribal law was superseded by lagomorphean law. Lagomorphs gradually began to migrate to the islands.
@l@lDuring the long and bloody Crimson War between the vulpenoids and elves (4091-4100), the lagomorphs, having long been allies of the elves, made a limited effort to support them militarily. Thousands of elven refugees immigrated to Shunfalip-mi, fleeing violence and persecution. Sympathetic to their plight, the lagomorphs made an earnest attempt to accommodate the refugees.
@l@lFollowing their defeat of the elves at the conclusion of the Crimson War, the vulpenoids continued their imperialistic conquest by launching an invasion of Shunfalip-mi from both Dolgu and Melarue. Thus began the Vulpo-Lago War of 4109. The vulpenoids took both Shonlip-mi and Lopo Lwan-mi before a stalemate was eventually reached at the Battle of Zunbun-mi. The Treaty of Zunbun-mi was subsequently ratified, officially ending the war. The vulpenoids colonized Lopo Lwan-mi and Shonlip-mi, while the lagomorphs retained the three northern islands (Zunbun-mi, Kap'lwen-mi, and Unlenbi-mi). Hoping to avoid another Crimson War and to stop the conflict before it reached mainland Falyncentie, the lagomorphs agreed to other concessions: the vulpenoids were granted greater jurisdiction over the trade route along the entire archipelago, along with quite favorable rates of tax on transactions with the lagomorph kingdom.
@l@lStarting in 4139, for approximately thirteen years the Umr Epidemic claimed the lives of thousands of dwarves on Yurthor. When it was discovered that the dreadful disease could not be transmitted to other bipedal races, a great number of dwarves immigrated to Shunfalip-mi and other nearby continents, tragically fleeing from their own people.
@l@lThe Decade of Quakes began in 4150 with the Great Earthquake of Zunbun-mi. The earthquake struck at the northern tip of the island, where there were few bipedal settlements aside from two lagomorph military bases. While the damage at the epicenter was devastating, the villages of central Kap'lwen-mi and southern Zunbun-mi saw a great deal of destruction as well. King Threis of the lagomorphs was widely applauded for his campaign to both supply aid to victims, and to assist in the reconstruction of leveled settlements. Throughout the decade other massive earthquakes followed in Dolgu and Falyncentie.
@l@lPresent-day Shunfalip-mi stands out as one of the most complex regions of Rumia in social, political, and economic terms. The entire archipelago is remarkably multi-cultural. The laws of the land vary by island: the three northern islands are under the law of the lagomorph kingdom (as they have been for over one hundred and fifty years now), while the two southern islands are officially subject to the greater laws of the Brahnian Empire (which also govern Melarue). Finally, Shunfalip-mi's stature as an economic hub for international trade remains undeniable, and there is no clear sign of this changing in the near future.

\uDemographics\n
@l@lAlong with increased international trade, various historical factors (highlighted above) have lead to Shunfalip-mi becoming the most racially diverse territory of Rumia. The demographic breakdown of present-day Shunfalip-mi is estimated to be as follows:
45% nymphs
20% lagomorphs
15% vulpenoids
10% elves
5%  dwarves
2%  humans
2%  felinoids
1%  hobbits

\uLanguage\n
@l@lGiven that Shunfalip-mi is racially diverse, it's hardly surprising that many languages are spoken on the islands, and the common tongue is frequently utilized.
@l@lThe vast majority of names given to geological features and settlements come from the naelyni language of the nymphs. Those with a linguistic curiosity will be interested in the meaning of the suffixes that regularly appear in these names. Here are the most common:
"-bi" mountain range
"-ji" river
"-ko" village/settlement
"-mi" island
"-no" forest
"-to" lake

\uEnvironment\n
@l@lMountain ranges can be found throughout the entire archipelago. A rocky, torrid desert zone exists at the geographic center of Shunfalip-mi: Zunbun-mi, the middle island, is almost entirely desert. The southern half of Kap'lwen-mi (north of Zunbun-mi) and the northern tip of Lopo Lwan-mi (south of Zunbun-mi) also feature deserts. The regions to the north and south of this central desert zone consist of tropical savannas. Open and continuous grassland with scattered trees and shrubs is common, with forests often appearing along rivers and wetlands.

\uClimate\n
@l@lThe climate is typically hot, sunny, dry, and somewhat windy all year long. The desert zone is extremely arid and often sweltering, while the climate of the savannas is less extreme. There is a long dry season, and a short wet season during the summer months of Fete Lun and Sun Lun. Rainfall can be unreliable and erratic.

\uFauna and flora\n
@l@lShunfalip-mi is home to a wide variety of plants and animals. Plants adapt at storing water are common, including trees, palms, succulents such as cacti, and spiny shrubs. Native animals include antelope, goats, camels, cheetah, lions, lizards, snakes, scorpions, foxes, jackals, rock cavies, and honey badgers. Highly aggressive giant honey badgers exist in some areas (most notably the Uninhabited Zone of Lopo Lwan-mi).

\uEconomy\n
@l@lThe archipelago is a focus of economic interest due to its logistically advantageous location along the international trade route. Shunfalip-mi is also well known for its own exports, which are eagerly sought throughout much of Rumia. These chiefly include nuts (gorhna nuts in particular), beans, yams, and spices.
