\h ACRONYMS \d

See "help glossary" for definitions of additional terms.
Note that the use of acronyms in In-Character (IC) communication is prohibited!

FP      Fatigue Points`
        A number representing a character's capacity for physical activity. Most commonly, movement and combat cost FP; FP are recovered naturally as one rests. When a character's FP falls below 1, that character is totally exhausted (he/she may neither move nor swing a weapon).

HP      Hit Points`
        A number representing a character's physical health. One looses HP as one is injured; HP are recovered naturally as one heals. An HP less than zero represents fatal injury.

IC      In-Character`
        Something said or done as a character, in the context of role-playing.

INPC    Interactive Non-Player Character`
        A character that is usually controlled by the server, and sometimes controlled, or otherwise actively managed, by the administrators.

IRL     In Real Life`

MP      Magic Points`
        A number representing a character's capacity to cast magic spells. The casting of spells costs MP; MP are recovered naturally as one rests. A character's MP may never drop below 0, as 0 represents the total depletion of one's magical energy.

MUD     Multi-User Dungeon`
        This generally refers to a (usually text-based) virtual world in its totality.

NPC     Non-Player Character`
        A character controlled by the server. A "mobile" ("mob") or "monster."

OOC     Out-Of-Character`
        Something said or done as a player, outside the context of role-playing.

PC      Player Character`
        A character controlled by a human player.

PD      Permadeath`
        When a Player Character (PC) dies, he/she is truly dead; a deceased PC cannot return to the virtual world in any way, shape, or form.

PKing   Player Killing`
        When one Player Character (PC) kills another PC.

PP      Psionic Points`
        A number representing a character's capacity to use psionic abilities. The use of psionics costs PP; PP are recovered naturally as one rests. A character's PP may never drop below 0, as 0 represents the total depletion of one's psionic energy.

PvE     Player vs. Environment`
        Denotes a MUD in which players are opposed by the environment and combat occurs between Player Characters (PCs) and Non-Player Characters (NPCs). CurryMUD is a mix of PvE and PvP.

PvP     Player vs. Player`
        Denotes a MUD that allows combat between Player Characters (PCs) or, in a more general sense, conflict between players. CurryMUD is a mix of PvP and PvE.

RP      Role-Play`

RPI     Role-Play Intensive`
        Used to describe a MUD that requires players to stay In-Character (IC). CurryMUD is an RPI MUD.

\uSEE ALSO\n
coins, glossary, permadeath, role-play, rules, stats
